Welcome to realistic lighting.
All fake it in this video you will see that there is a fine balance between choosing realistic lighting
and faking it and the time required is often a major factor in working out the path you wish to take.
So all one hand we have realistic lighting just getting everything hyper realistic now.
The issue with that is it can take an incredible amount of time to render and sometimes you get a rubbish
result at the very end.
And of course because it takes a very long time to render.
You may not notice there's a problem with it.
He spent a very long time doing it.
But there are other ways around this issue where we can fake the look we're going for and we're going
to go explore that now and hop on over in a blender.
So I've opened up a brand new blender file and the first thing that we're going to do is literally just
make a a just a quick room out of this cube so got a cube here.
I'm going to go to edit mode.
Subdivide it a couple of times.
Going to edit mode.
I'm going to subdivide it.
Going to bring up the specials menu with W and it go to subdivide and then adjust the number of cuts
in there.
That's about right.
And then I'm going to face select select these six here so we've got some light coming in but I'm not
going to just delete them I thought I was going to what I'm going to do is actually separate them into
a separate object and we can use that to demonstrate what we're trying to do.
Now in this case I'm going to have to move my camera into my box so I'm going to do that now.
Grab it's now going to have to move it not in the z direction just push it in there.
Let's see how that looks.
That's absolutely fine.
I'm going to go for a bit double wide angle similar Go see the camera properties and go to the focal
length and make it twenty four Yeah that should do absolutely fine.
So at the moment and we've not got any lights coming in our scene we've got a lamp outside I'm going
to change that to a sunlamp.
And turn the strength flaps on in a click use nodes at certain strength up to five.
And if we switch over to a rendered married it's going to be black because we are inside that cube.
If we were to go in hide the Q One which I'm going to name now windows so I don't get too confused with
anything.
And make that a bit bigger there.
There we go.
So now we render it we've got like coming into the room I'm not going to bother setting up a light portal
at the moment we shoot obviously make it a bit less noisy.
So we've got the light coming into the room Now that's absolutely fine.
Now if we were going to have glass in the way we would have this window would actually make it a material
change.
So I'm going to see unique material first of all and change that to glass otherwise I've been modifying
the original material there which is something I wouldn't want to do.
I'm going to use notes here and change this to glass.
Now when we go ahead and go around there and scan to render in the viewport we see that it's taking
absolute ages to actually put any light into the room.
It will eventually get there we're on three out of 10 cycles but you can probably guess we're going
to need a lot and lots of samples to get here.
Now this is all in preparation for a stained glass window in a few moments that Im going to be making.
However you can see actually going along the lines of having a realistic room with them in the windows.
It may actually cause you more problems than you think its going to happen.
You want it realistic but at the same time you dont want to wait in the e.on.
So after 10 samples this is what weve got not very good.
However what we can do and this applies to textures is well if we put a texture on to that plane it
all it would be doing is emitting the colour of that plane.
Thats all a basic texture would be doing.
We can change the surface to a emission.
And now that is lighting up the room.
Now depending on what youre going for that could be all you need in order to get the right view.
So we're in this render this out now see how it looks.
Its going to take a while to go through.
And of course this is just a basic room so that is absolutely fine in terms of filling the room up with
lights.
I'm not sure how many samples of gone this render Lets go have a look at 50 in total sense whizzing
around there and thats absolutely fine.
Now of course if I change the material colour and had its red then it would be ziv of the room or the
glass was tinted red.
Now the downside of doing it this way is you cant see through the window which means if theres something
you want to see outside through that window this wont be the best way of doing it you may be able to
find a mix of shaders that sorts that out perhaps putting in a a transparent shader as well as something
else to try and a minute or mimic the see through ability or the transparency of glass.
I was about to make up a word there dangerous thing to do.
So now we've had this preparation.
I've got a small challenge for you.
I would like you to go ahead and create a missive surface so I'm going to be using an image of a stained
glass window and using it's a fake light coming through into my church that I'm making.
Now in your scene perhaps you have a coloured lamp or a TV screen computer screen or a laptop screen
in your scene.
There are lots of different options that you can go for create in the missive surface and see how he
gets on pause a video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and add in a missive surface over in blender.
Okay so we're back over in blender here and I'm going to go ahead and open up my Gothic church scene
and I'm going to import an images as a plane.
That's how I'm going to bring my texture in.
Now I want to make sure it's roughly in the right place.
I'm going to pop it on the back window here.
So I'm just going to click to but the 3D cursor roughly in the right place.
I can move it to my heart's content in a moment.
I'm going to go and add a mesh images planes or lots of choices here.
Or I can see this stained glass window.
Case I'm going to go in to.
Is it textured mode I want here.
There we go I can see what's going on.
I'm going to rotate round on the y axis.
By the looks of it.
No no no no.
X axis by 90 degrees.
I think so.
Let's move that up.
And make that a bit bigger.
I'm not seeing anything in the moment and just switch over into rendered mode.
OK.
So that gives me an idea of what's going on there and I'm literally just going to stretch this image
up for the moment.
So let's scale it on the z axis.
That's looking good.
Now move it only on the z axis until it fills up the area.
I want it to go it's looking pretty good.
I might actually be able to scale that back down again but I'll leave it like that for the moment.
Now I know there's a few issues around the top here with you in the church from outside of the building
from outside but that's not a problem because my camera view is from the inside.
So let's have a look at what's going here and I can see that it's actually a little bit too high.
So that's crowd that move that back down ever so slightly.
Okay.
Now I'm going to.
It's already.
It's already brought in a lot of the properties.
We've got an image texture here but it's currently set up as a diffuse b s.
So if you shade up I'm going to go ahead now and switch that to a mission if I can see it.
There it is.
And there we go I can already see that that's already pumping out light into our scene.
Now we can play with the strange some going to go to five and perhaps that's a little bit too bright
so drop it back down to four.
And just getting a feel of it here.
And of course the best thing to do.
Is to probably just click render and see how it's looking so we will go ahead and render the image.
Now that might take a while to do I'm just going to check my settings before I go with mine.
There we go.
I don't need to run it at a full 10 ATP or any stupidly high like that's just going to run a very very
low rez version because it's just a spot check how things are looking.
Is lights coming into the scene.
I mean that's looking pretty good so far I'm liking what I'm seeing.
Now of course I can adjust this.
It doesn't look like it's actually filling up the entire window like I expected to.
But again those are all adjustments that I can make.
But that is definitely letting light in and looking much better than it looked before.
It does look like I need to adjust these or indeed get an image that matches my window or make my window
match the image a bit better.
Lots of options there but that is coming along pretty well.
How did you guys get on what did you add into your scene as in a missive surface please post in the
discussions.
I'd love to see them and I will see you guys in the next lecture.